Git add .

Git commit -m "message"

Git branch newImage

Git checkout newImage : Switch to new Branch

if you want to create a new branch AND check it out at the same time, you can simply type git checkout -b [yourbranchname].

git merge branchName : merge two branch 

git rebase main: The second way of combining work between branches is rebasing. Rebasing essentially takes a set of commits, "copies" them, and plops them down somewhere else.


Head
First we have to talk about "HEAD". HEAD is the symbolic name for the currently checked out commit -- it's essentially what commit you're working on top of.
HEAD always points to the most recent commit which is reflected in the working tree. Most git commands which make changes to the working tree will start by changing HEAD.
Normally HEAD points to a branch name (like bugFix). When you commit, the status of bugFix is altered and this change is visible through HEAD.

Detach head : git checkout commitName 

Relative Refs
Moving around in Git by specifying commit hashes can get a bit tedious. In the real world you won't have a nice commit tree visualization next to your terminal, so you'll have to use git log to see hashes.

Furthermore, hashes are usually a lot longer in the real Git world as well. For instance, the hash of the commit that introduced the previous level is fed2da64c0efc5293610bdd892f82a58e8cbc5d8. Doesn't exactly roll off the tongue...

The upside is that Git is smart about hashes. It only requires you to specify enough characters of the hash until it uniquely identifies the commit. So I can type fed2 instead of the long string above.

Git Demonstration
Let's look at the Caret (^) operator first. Each time you append that to a ref name, you are telling Git to find the parent of the specified commit.
So saying main^ is equivalent to "the first parent of main".
main^^ is the grandparent (second-generation ancestor) of main
Let's check out the commit above main here.
Ex git checkout HEAD^

Tilda
Ex git checkout HEAD~4

Branch forcing
You're an expert on relative refs now, so let's actually use them for something.
One of the most common ways I use relative refs is to move branches around. You can directly reassign a branch to a commit with the -f option. So something like:
git branch -f main HEAD~3
moves (by force) the main branch to three parents behind HEAD.
Note: In a real git environment git branch -f command is not allowed for your current branch.

git branch -f main HEAD~3 : switch branch and and go back to commit

Git Reset
git reset reverses changes by moving a branch reference backwards in time to an older commit. In this sense you can think of it as "rewriting history;" git reset will move a branch backwards as if the commit had never been made in the first place.
Let's see what that looks like:




