check the status is docker running or not:
systemctl status docker
run docker demon: 
systemctl start docker

ctrl r reverse seach on terminal
check command history : history

man command : give information of command
$ add : for environment variable

ps: list all process which are running (ps takeout the information from /proc directory)
aux: command line parameter all user 
grep: filter 

 !! =  previous command
 
 kill send signals
 kill process id  
 kill -9 process id= delete memory
 pkill "brave": ex it will kill all the process which contain word in brave in it

cat : read file
| : output|input take output as input from the left and then for right give input
echo "This is cool" > filename : overwrite the file content.
echo "This is cool" >> filename : add in the last line.

to run the shell command use : sh -c 

ps -exo pid,cmd: -e Takes all processes being run on the system into account.
	   x The x option in ps expands the output to include background processes and processes that are not associated with a specific terminal.
	   o default output format
	   cmd pid (process id) ,cmd (process name, arguments)
	
ps aux: - The a flag stands for 'all.' When used with ps, it lists processes from all users on the system.
	- The u flag stands for 'user.' It provides detailed information about each process, including the user that owns the process.
	- The x flag stands for 'extended.' It lists processes not attached to a terminal, such as system services.
	
ps -exo use for format 

systemctl : Systemctl is the command-line tool that manages the systemd system and service manager in Linux. It lets users control and manage system services and units with commands
            to start, stop, restart, and check their status.
           
sh -c : In Ubuntu, sh is usually symlinked to /bin/dash, meaning that if you execute a command with sh -c the dash shell will be used to execute the command instead of bash.
        sh is the bourne shell. There are several shells, of which bourne is the old standard, installed on all unix systems, and generally the one you can guarantee will exist.
        The shell is the command interpreter that takes your input, provides output back to the screen, to the correct files, etc, and provides all the basic built-in commands you 
        need to manage jobs, kill, test expressions, etc.

	sh: This invokes the Bourne shell (or a compatible shell).
	-c: This option tells sh to read commands from the following string.

bash : It is a shell that listen input from the terminal.  

nano filename : Use to update file.

pwd : (present working directory) Give the path of my current directory.

vi : vim old terminal
--rm: Automatically removes the container once it stops.

In Ubuntu (or any Unix-like system), wq is a command used inside the vi or vim text editor to save and exit a file.
vim filename.txt
Press Esc to ensure you're in normal mode
:wq and press Enter.
w = write (save the file)
q = quit (exit the editor)
If you only want to quit without saving, use :q!.

// ls -lah /dev/sdb*

find . -name 'index.js'
find . -not -path 'node_modules' -name 'index.js'

sed -i 's;localhost;0.0.0.0;g' index.js

diff command to check the changes between 2 files

edit a file without using text-editor : sed -i 's/background-color: blue;/background-color: green;/' /usr/share/nginx/html/index.html

ps aux --sort=-%mem | head : It will give you ram usable of ps

\df : hard disk usage
free -h : memory usage

ls -a: ls: lists files and directories
       -a: shows all files, including hidden files (those that start with a dot . like .git, .env, etc.)
       
find a file : find . -name "filename.txt"
	      . = current directory
	      
	      
sudo lsof -i :<port> : find the process working the port number 
			sudo → Runs the command with root privileges (needed to see all processes)
			lsof → Lists open files (sockets, pipes, etc. are treated as files in Linux)
			-i → Filters network files, e.g., TCP/UDP sockets
			:<port> → Filters for a specific port number

To remove a package and its associated configuration files, use the apt purge or apt-get purge
